It was pure chance that led us to this place, both geographic and internal. Pure unadulterated chance, and a healthy portion of what can only be described as incredibly good luck. France had been on our horizon for over six months, an ever expanding focal point whose direction we soon realised was the only one we wanted to head in. And so we gamely steered ourselves towards it, confident in our chosen next step.
Our original plan was to rent a house for six months. We researched specific areas, and earmarked the rolling green hills of the Midi-Pyrenees, somewhere between the pink city of Toulouse, and the famed wine capital of Bordeaux. We browsed online listings for rental cottages from our homestay in Bali, longing to once again enjoy the changing seasons of Europe, and life lived at a more relaxed pace.
It was only when returning home to England to visit family, mere weeks before our intended arrival in France, that the idea of house sitting first crossed our minds. Surprised that we hadn't thought of it sooner, we quickly registered with two agencies, Trusted Housesitters and Mind My House, and devoured the advice given in an invaluable eBook we purchased from fellow bloggers and experienced house sitters, Hecktic Travels.
There was an abundance of short-term places available across France, but we were looking for a stay of six months, and as we quickly realised, it was rather late in the day to find such a thing. With little left available to us, we searched for houses suitable in our chosen area, and started submitting applications to anything loosely fitting the bill. It was with one such listing, no photographs included, that everything changed.
Though the description was vague, the location was perfect, and so too was the time frame; a delicious six months from November to April. Despite not knowing exactly what we were applying for, something about the advertisement just sounded right. There was even a cat to look after, which anyone who knows me will tell you was reason enough for me to apply.
We felt a rush of excitement when we made it past the first stage of the application process, and were told we had been shortlisted for consideration. Things got even more promising when we were invited for an interview via Skype with the owner's personal assistant. It was at this stage that we were emailed a link to the house we could possibly be looking after for the next six months, though the word house barely does it justice.
After successfully passing the initial Skype test, we were put through to the final round: a Skype call with the owner herself. We were as giddy as school children, and so nervous that we both dressed up for the occasion, Lee's unkempt locks neatly tied back, and my face baring make-up for the first time in months.
But our nerves were soon assuaged, and we found ourselves chatting freely with the owner, Lizzie, as though old friends; our conversation peppered with laughter and discoveries of numerous shared interests. Things went so well in fact, that at the end of the call, and much to our delight, we were offered the house sit on the spot.
Or should I say, chateau sit.
Set proudly atop a hill amidst 22 acres of beautifully maintained grounds, Chateau Dumas boasts an impeccably restored 18th century interior, featuring trompe l'oeil walls and original stone flooring, vintage furnishings, and stunning artwork. Topiary bushes and cypress trees stand proudly in the courtyard, their roots awash with swathes of fragrant lavender.
An artist's haven, the chateau holds seasonal workshops, where guests can participate in a wide variety of arts and crafts. I can't imagine a more idyllic setting, and our arrival here has triggered a wave of creativity for me, one I hope to ride for the long winter months ahead. Wandering though the many rooms, past walls decorated with vintage gowns and arrangements of luggage from the early 1900's, the travelling artist in me is filled with such an overwhelming sense of joy, I can hardly wait to get back to our newly appointed office, draw out my pencils, and start sketching the stunning views that sit just beyond our window.
We've been living here for two weeks now, and our awe has not yet dissipated. I doubt it ever will. We feel honoured to have been entrusted with such a magnificent home, and can't wait to see what these precious six months have in store for us. Though this is not our home forever, it is our home for now, a gift of chance that elegantly holds the key to all that we have been longing for in recent months. It's a place where we can slow down, and focus on creative pursuits. A place where we can rekindle that which was lost out on the open road. I can't help thinking that maybe it wasn't luck that brought us here after all, but more a case of fate leading us right to where we needed to be.

It is Russ who first christens our motley expedition as we slowly ease ourselves off our motorbikes on the banks of the Mekong river. Stiff and broken from the long day's drive, we stretch our legs and feel our battered bodies start to come alive again. "I was thinking we should call this adventure The Sore Way Round," Russ quips, "because, well, it is."
It is the end of day two on our month-long motorbike tour of Cambodia, an idea first hatched over ice-cool Angkor beers back in Battambang a few days earlier. We had crossed paths with Sophia and Russ for the fourth time in almost as many days, and it seemed fated that we should continue to travel together.
I turn in my seat now as we cross the Mekong and begin to follow the water's path from Kampong Cham towards Kratie, looking back to take a photo of our new travel companions. The early morning sun beats down upon us and the quiet streets begin to stir, waking me up with them.
There is an energy that courses through Cambodia unlike that of any other country I have visited. It is raw and authentic, its heart as open as the wounds of its embittered history. As our bike moves ever forward I feel myself become more open too, releasing the tension of the past eight months, watching it drift away on the warm winds as we drive.
I gaze through dust-coated sunglasses at the ever-changing landscape, as dry ochre fields evolve into lush forests and rolling hills. Vibrant green rice paddies glisten in the sun, broken only by a scattering of livestock and the occasional pop of colourful headscarves as women tend their crops.
Tiny houses on stilts skirt the roadside. The look like they've been made from lollypop sticks, ramshackle and worn by time. Families congregate in their shade, swinging from hammocks beneath the floorboards while children play in the dust. They spread sheets outside to dry their harvest, the black of peppercorns, the red of chilli peppers, their musty perfume lingering long after we drive past.
Everything seems more alive here, more visceral, and the diverse beauty of this chaotic country and her remarkable people are a fuel as vital as the petrol that courses through our engine.
We've been driving for over an hour when we pull over at a little shack for our first stop of the day, not to refuel, but to dismount for a while and allow the blood flow to return to our aching muscles. We pull off our helmets, our faces ruddy with the dust of the road, drawing comical stares from the young girls sorting plastic bottles behind us.
That's kind of how it goes out here on the road. Unable to communicate in words, we smile and laugh, stumbling over the few words of Khmer we have picked up, four dirt-streaked adventurers. Always, we are welcomed. We are taken in, offered chairs, quietly giggled at.
A young boy, no older than ten, pulls up on a motorbike and stands casually as a woman fills his gas tank. He is perhaps the coolest kid I have ever seen, and he cracks a wry smile as I catch his eye, before jumping back on his bike and driving off.
We sit for a while, taking it all in; the view, the people, our new friendship. Out here on the road, we are becoming a team, routing for each other, urging one another on. It is a camaraderie we witness daily in the people of Cambodia, and one we fall into easily.
Soon we are back on the bikes, chasing the clouds that hang heavy in the sky above us, a sky more vast than I have ever seen before. It's another world, whole mountains and valleys of white, suspended in the ether.
We pass a bike carrying a family of four, and I watch as huge grins spread across their faces as they move behind us. We are the same, and we are different, and we smile in acknowledgement of this. I wave as the distance between us increases, and they wave back.
These beautiful but brief moments of connection are scattered along the way like breadcrumbs marking our trail, ensuring that we will never forget the path our journey takes, and letting us know that wherever this road may lead us, we will always find our way back.
I feel as though I could follow this road forever, just leave my arms wrapped loosely around Lee, my face turned to the wild beauty all around me, and keep going. Every small encounter, every friendly face. They come together here on the road and become a tangible force that fuels my thirst for adventure. This. This is why I travel.

Happy 2018, you crazy cats! It's strange to be writing "2018" everywhere. But I like even numbers. Typically I'd wrap up the year with a reflections post, because there's nothing I love more than a good 'ol naval gazing session. But 2017 was all about slowing down: working my butt off, diving into the arts, and taking a few trips here and there. I feel weird about wading back into the travel waters; I'm not even sure I know how to trip plan anymore. I have plans to revisit a handful of destinations that mean a lot to me (Berlin! Sligo!), but other than that, I want to hit up a few new countries. I'm pretty sure travel planning gets me high. Because just writing about this has me excited AS HELL. After last year's incredible all-inclusive vacation in Jamaica, I decided I wanted to do another this year. I mean, I can travel all I like, but taking a real vacation? That's a rare gem. No WiFi. No cellphones. Nada. Just a week of relaxation in the sun with some very cool people. This time, I'd like to check Cuba off my list. Me and my friend Lesley are booking a spot at the new Iberostar Bella Vista in Veradero, mainly so I can tour into Havana at some point. (If you know of any local small group tours for Havana, let me know!) Isn't it about time I head to Southeast Asia? I have about a six week period in the spring where I'd like to flee Canadian winter. So, I'm thinking of taking off. I'm not sure if six weeks is too little time to tackle four countries, but I'd at least like to fit three of those countries in. All I know for sure is that I want to explore Thailand and eat tons of soup in Vietnam. Of course, now that I'm working full-time, I still have to figure out the work/travel balance. That'll be a fun challenge! Remember that time I went on a cruise in the Caribbean? I didn't think I'd do another, but here I am. My boyfriend decided he wanted to try the whole cruise experience, and naturally I'm not gonna turn down a fun-fuelled romantic trip. This time I'd like to splurge on the whole she-bang: drink packages, a room with a balcony, and some off-ship activities. I'm thinking about cruising out of New Orleans, and maybe hitting up somewhere like Belize. I've also basically decided I don't want to do another Carnival, so I'm leaning more towards Norwegian. I'd love to know your recommendations! Last year, in June, me and Julia vowed that we'd try to get back to Sligo at least once a year. It's SO cheap from Newfoundland, and I'd like to spend more time during this visit actually doing things and exploring the area rather than just living in a bar. Plus, y'know, maybe I'll hit up somewhere new in Ireland. I hear Derry is lovely. Then I'm hoping to follow Julia back to the Shetland Islands, where she's currently living. I think I'm actually most excited about the crazy journey - it's an epic train and overnight ferry trip from Glasgow. Shetland is rugged and lovely and exactly the kind of thing I love. The last time I was in Glasgow, I didn't fully get to live the experience (thanks to an insane bout of gastro), so perhaps I'll spend a bit of time there too. Even if I didn't want to go back to Berlin, I still have a suitcase of belongings there! It's so crazy to think I left nearly two years ago. I want to visit in spring/summer, drink beers in the park, and revisit all my friends and old haunts. I'm aching just thinking about it. I'd also like to journey up to Hamburg for a few days while I'm there. One of my biggest regrets about living in Germany wasn't seeing enough of the country. So, there's a start. I have so many friends scattered around the world right now, I'd be silly not to take them up on their invitations to visit. There's no better way to see a place than to do it with a local. Ukraine and Japan are two options I'd love to tap into, if the budget allows!

Hello, lovely people. I have been getting a lot of questions about my Trentino trip, therefore I have decided to put together a perfect 4 day Dolomites itinerary for you.
I love being in touch with you - my readers but time is precious, especially when you have a tendency to spend too many hours on Netflix (Narcos is my guilty pleasure!)
My trip to Trentino was pure magic, beautiful views, superb hiking routes and concerts in the high mountains.
Did I mention that in Trentino they take 'aperitivo' very seriously? Just like me! It seems like Trentino and I are a match made in heaven and we gonna live Happily Ever After. After all, it does looks like a fairytale!
After all, it does looks like a fairytale!
Where and what are the Dolomites?
Never heard about the Dolomites before? Maybe because the 'Italian Alps' term is often used in regard to the Dolomites.
It is a mountain range in northeastern Italy, which is a part of Southern Limestone Alps, therefore, I guess you can technically use the Italian Alps wording if you insist.
The Dolomites are also known as the "Pale Mountains" because of the carbonate rock dolomite they are made of.
Due to the calcium and magnesium carbonation, there is an unusual natural phenomenon you can observe in the Dolomites - Enrosadira, which literally means 'turning pink' in Ladin, an ancient language of inhabitants of Dolomites.
It takes place both at dusk and dawn but highly depends on weather conditions and time of the year, I wasn't lucky enough to catch it, but you can easily check it on the Visit Trentino page.
Le Corbusier called the Dolomites "the most beautiful natural architectures in the world" and I truly agree with him.
Why Trentino?
The Dolomites are nearly equally shared between the provinces of Belluno, South Tyrol and Trentino. I have chosen to explore the Dolomites in Trentino for many different reasons.
Some of the most beautiful peaks - Cimon della Pala, unusual nature parks - Pale di San Martino and hiking trails with spectacular mountain views - Val Canali and Val Venegia are here. You don't believe? Go check '50 Most Beautiful Pictures of Trentino' I took.
Do you need more? Fine, people and food. Both are a mix between Italian and Germanic roots and heritage.
I'm talking Italian appreciation of good life with Germanic logistics. Or venison, mushrooms and polenta next to pizza and pasta in the restaurants. The best of both worlds.
For whom?
For serious hiking enthusiast, for food and 'aperitivo' aficionados, for mountain and nature lovers, for 'perfect Instagram spots' hunters, for photographers in search of divine landscapes, for mountain bikers...
I could continue for a good few hours. You get the point.
When to visit?
The whole year round. Trentino has something to offer every season but if you want my honest opinion summer is when you should go.
This perfect 4 day Dolomites itinerary is written with summer in mind. The best hiking conditions, long days and 'I Suoni delle Dolomiti'.
Sounds of Dolomites Festival is a music festival which takes place on most unusual and unparalleled stages high in the mountains, where both audience and musicians have to reach on foot.
Superb performances ranging from jazz through the world to classical music pressed against spectacular backdrops of the Dolomites, something you never gonna experience anywhere else.
I attended a truly magical concert of Girls from 'Ten Thing' in the Pale di San Martino, unforgettable!
And all that for free. Yes, no kidding, concerts are free, you just need to hike there!
How to get here?
By car, if you live in neighbouring countries, otherwise by plane.
You can get to Trentino by train and the bus as well, but considering you will be needing a car to move around, it is the easiest to rent it straight away at the airport.
The list of airports you can fly into is quite overwhelming and most of them are just a few hours drive away from your hotel.
Verona is the closest with Alitalia, Lufthansa, British Airways and many low-cost airlines flying in. But many others such as Bergamo, Milan Linate, Milano Malpensa, Venice, Bologna and even Inssbruck are easily doable.
I flew in from Poland and flew out to Romania via Bologna airport and then had a car take me to Trentino. As you know I have no driving licence, so public transport, hiking or car with a driver for me.
But let's talk about this perfect 4 day Dolomites itinerary I have prepared for you. I mean for myself, but now you can replicate it and do not stress much about planning it yourself.
Perfect 4 Day Dolomites Itinerary
I have chosen to visit Fiera di Primiero, Val Canali, Val Venegia and Pale di San Martino. I planned my trip around Sounds of Dolomites Festival and you should check that option as well.
Day 1 - Discovery of Fiera di Primiero
Take an early morning flight to be in Trentino by noon. This way you have a whole day to take it easy, to discover the town and its surroundings.
Lunch - First and foremost, have a good lunch, let's be honest priorities!
Check out great 'Al Bus' Restaurant close to Fiera di Primiero on your way to the afternoon activities in Mezzano.
The cheese selection is to die for!
Borgo Mezzano - one of the most beautiful medieval villages of Italy you will see.
Host very original 'Cataste & Canazei' exhibition, which incorporates creative woodworks and art pieces into the natural environment of the village.
A must see!
Fiera di Primiero - Next, after admiring Mezzano, check out beautiful Fiera.
Explore the town first, get some gelatos, photograph colourful houses and on the way to your dinner stop on the Via Bellavista to admire those spectacular views!
Dinner - After all the sightseeing it is finally time for 'aperitivo' and dinner.
You should book a table at the Rifugio Caltena, to watch the sun setting over the mountain peaks while you are sipping on Aperol Spritz. Try their amazing homemade grappas!
Pro Hike - If you are eager to start hiking today, you can always trek up from Fiera di Primiero to Rifugio Caltena for dinner and back. It is a 5km hike with 547m ascent, which takes about 1,5h.
Day 2 - Pale do San Martino
Easy hike - There are two options. First, you use Colverde-Rosetta cableways and you hike around Pale di San Martino as long as you feel like it.
Grab a lunch in Rifugio Rosetta and go back with cable cars to spend the rest of the day exploring San Martino.
The second option is to avoid cable cars and climb up to the plateau from Colverde Station as a starting point, enjoy lunch in Rifugio Rosetta and then back with cable cars. It is a 4-hour hike with 1195m up and 130m down.
You can hike down, but let's be honest it is better to save your knees for the rest of the Trentino trip.
Pro hike - You should arrive early morning and take a Colverde cable-car - Rosetta cableway to reach Pale di San Martino.
The hike is from Refugio Rosetta through Passo Pradidali Basso. It is 3,5-hour hike with 200m ascent and 400m descent and back.
Please remember it is a 7h hike plus breaks plus lunch, therefore, you need 9h in total.
With a cable car, it makes 10h round trip from San Martino di Castrozza.
Lunch in Rifugio Pedrotti.
To check all possible hikes go to San Martino website.
Dinner - You start in La Mia Enoteca for some 'aperitivo' and wine and move to Chalet Pra delle Nasse - Ristorante da Anita for an excellent dinner.
Day 3 - Van Canali and Lago Welsperg
Easy hike - You should start with Lago Welsperg after breakfast, morning is the best time of the day to get a perfect reflection of rigid peaks in the water.
From the lake, it is an easy 50-minute walk, 3,3km and 203m ascent to Malga Canali, through Piereni Chalet.
Lunch - Malga Canali, it is one of the cutest places with the most amazing mountain view I have seen and it was my best meal in whole Trentino.
Tosella cheese with a sausage, potatoes with eatable flowers and fresh salad. Heaven! Tosella is a must try in Trentino!
Pro hike - From Malga Canali follow the road up to Rifugio Pradidali and Lake. It is a 2-hour and 6,7km hike with 1096m ascent and 125m descent.
It is 3h up from Lago Welsperg to Rifugio Pradidali. 1,5-2 hours back to Malga Canali and another 1h to Lago Welsperg plus lunch plus breaks you need 8h in total.
Dinner - Enjoy dinner in your hotel, most hotels in the region offer full board packages and have some fine restaurants.
That is my trick if I want to enjoy the SPA and Wellness Center and not to rush to get ready to go out for dinner. You deserve some 'you time' after all the hiking.
Day 4 - Val Venegia
It is the last day of my perfect 4 day Dolomites itinerary and I promise to have sth special for you!
Easy hike - You go by car to Passo Rolle and climb from a parking lot to Baita Segantini and its amazing pond, where you can get some of the best reflection shots of Dolomites, I wasn't lucky with the weather.
If you are into photography you want to be here at sunrise or sunset.
Next, you follow to Malga Venegio where you can stop for a great lunch and some hot tea. After lunch, follow through the woods to Malga Juribello and then back to Passo Rolle.
It is a 12km hike, which will take about 3 hours. With decent and ascent not crossing 500m.
Pro hike - You do the easy hike with one little change.
From Baita Segantini you climb up to Rifugio Volpi al Mulaz where you can get some amazing views of Cima Bureloni and then down to Malga Venegio.
From here you follow the easy hike instructions. It is 17,3 km hike with ascent and descent not crossing 600m mark. You choose which rifugio you have lunch in :)
It is a 5-hour hike plus lunch plus breaks, consequently are looking at 7-hour trip.
Dinner - You can finally have your well-deserved pizza. There is a great place in Tonadico - Lanterna Verde.
Always filled with happy locals, therefore, make sure you book, don't expect quiet meal out :)
Important Tip
If you have to take a plane in the evening do switch day 3 and 4. Val Canali can be done in half day so you can easily reach your airport for the evening flight.
I hope you enjoyed my perfect 4 day Dolomites itinerary. In addition, if you have any questions do not hesitate to comment on this post or send me an email.
How to move around?
The best thing you can do is to rent a car. Trentino Trasporti provides great service all over the region with super modern buses but to have a freedom of moving where and when you please car is your best friend.
Unless you are a biker or a motorbike, then you go with your two-wheelers and wind in your hair.
Where to stay?
To check out all of the above places your best option is to stay in Fiera di Primiero. You could stay in San Martino di Castrozza, but that is way too much driving for my liking.
I always go for an optimal option (therefore this perfect 4 day Dolomites itinerary is designed by this rule) as little car time possible so the rest of the day I can enjoy hiking and being outdoors, in nature. Or just sip Aperol spritz while looking at the rigid peaks playing 'hide and seek' game with clouds.
Hotels I recommend
Hotel Isolabella Wellness - A charming property in the centre of Fiera di Primiero with a SPA Center hard to beat. For all art and music enthusiast. Every room is dedicated to a different artist! Ultimately best place to stay!
Hotel Al Ponte - Central and very quiet location near the historical centre of Fiera di Primiero, boasts a long tradition of family management dating back to 1923.
Hotel Astoria - Located in a traffic-free area of Fiera di Primiero, set on the banks of Cismon River offers amazing views of Pale di San Martino mountain range.
Final Thoughts & Tips
Pack for the mountains. Even if you travel in the summer, don't be this tourist in flipflops on a hiking trail complaining it is not paved! (A real-life situation). Raincoat, fleece, trekking shoes, you know the drill.
I bet you want to mention my A Girl with a Scarf pictures?! Points on you for being a sharp observer. It is indeed part of my image but as boring as it sounds I do change into those cute dresses.
I hike in long trousers, dirty trekking shoes and professional sportswear. The only fancy thing I own is my juicy red Jack Wolfskin raincoat.
Don't expect to lose much weight from all that hiking, food is way too good in Trentino.
Plan your trip well in advance, this region gets busy and having considered how beautiful it is, no wonder!
Don't forget your camera gear. I did forget my tripod and options are very limited, especially in smaller mountain towns. The shop in Fiera di Primero had exactly one, which I bought, lucky me!
And last but not least prepare to totally fall in love with everything Trentino.
In my modest opinion, this is a truly perfect 4 day Dolomites itinerary however if you want to check some other villages or hikes I do recommend checking Visit Trentino website.

If you think spending a week in Playa del Carmen is too long, I think you're wrong. We've written all about the Riviera Maya town before, and I'm sure we'll write about it again. Because there is so much to see and do near this attractive beach town, just one hour south of Cancun. I recently spent a week in Playa del Carmen for my friend's birthday, and I could have easily stayed another week just to do all the activities we came across. And while I don't want to bore you with the details, I do want to share some of the highlights that will hopefully prove helpful!
(Note: There had been a lot of violence reported in Cancun just before our trip to Playa del Carmen; however, I never felt unsafe walking through the town or on any of our tours. There was a relatively noticeable police presence, but it wasn't overwhelming. And while I'd encourage you to take the sensationalized reporting with a grain of salt, always put your safety first.)
Here is how I spent a week in Playa del Carmen:
DAY ONE: Get Settled In
Our group of seven all arrived in Cancun around 8AM. Since there were so many of us, we decided to hire a Super Shuttle for a round-trip fare of $120. Plus it was nice not to worry about arranging our ride back.
After about an hour, the driver let us out at the four-bedroom AirBnB we'd rented in Playacar. This is a nice gated community interwoven with the Hard Rock Hotel's golf course. While it was a little ways from the bustling main strip, it was also a welcome reprieve. We had our own pool to lounge in privately and it was quiet at night. Of course there are a lot of options for accommodations in the area. We went with an AirBnB so we could have some privacy and still be all together. In this case the property manager was very accommodating, and provided drinking water as well as the number of a reliable, private taxi service. (Of course there are other ways to get around.)
After getting settled into our rooms, having a snack and getting groceries, we finally made our way out to dinner. We'd heard the restaurant at the Frida Kahlo Museum, but it was unfortunately closed for renovations. So we ate just across the street at Mi Pueblo. This is where my tour of shrimp tacos began. The food was good and the open air made for fun and easy people-watching.
DAY TWO: Explore Your Surroundings
With everyone a little jet-lagged (except for me; I still woke up at 7:30), it was lunch time before we were all ready to go explore. So we walked into town and North of the pier to find a nice spot on the beach. And, although there was A LOT of seaweed on the shore this time of year, the beach was still beautiful and the water incredibly warm.
After a few hours, we walked a few blocks back toward Calle Quinta Avenida (5th street, a pedestrian path lined with shops, hotels, and restaurants), and went to Patio 8 for food and drinks. This place has great food and drink specials. Like most of the places we ate, its prices were comparable to American restaurants. But that didn't keep us from sticking around for a couple of hours just eating and drinking and talking.
On our way home, we stopped to chat with the folks at Del Mundo Tours about snorkeling. They talked us into a multilingual excursion - our boat had French, English and Spanish-speaking groups - to Isla Contoy for about $120 USD per person. But we had to be up early, so it was straight to bed after that.
DAY THREE: Visit Isla Contoy & Isla Mujeres
We showed up in front of Del Mundo for pickup at 7AM (I told you it was early). They drove us to a port in Cancun, where they served breakfast and put us on a boat with about 30 other people.
Our guides, Lou Lou and Clal (who were seriously awesome), took those who wanted to go snorkeling just past the Mesoamerican Reef (the second-largest barrier reef in the world). In the span of about 45 minutes, we saw brain and fan coral, beautiful fish, and a nurse shark!
From there we stopped on the protected Island of Contoy for three hours. Here you can do more snorkeling or just float in the crystal waters until they serve a surprisingly delicious lunch. The only catch is that you're only allowed to wear biodegradable sunscreen in order to protect the reef. And if you're not a fan of mosquitoes, I'd suggest you skip the Island tour. The trip finished with quick, hour-long stop at Isla Mujeres before returning to Cancun and eventually Playa del Carmen.
For dinner, we had a reservation at Alux. This restaurant is a little away from town, but it's so worth it. It's set up in a cave that used to be part of the region's underground river system (more on this later). They gave us a private room, let us choose our bottles of wine straight from the cellar, and even brought out a custom-made a birthday cake for us to share. As if the setting wasn't reason enough to enjoy it!
DAY FOUR: Check Out a Beach Club
The best way to chase a birthday dinner? Birthday brunch.
We landed at Indigo Beach Club because they have a brunch buffet every day of the week from 7AM to 12PM for about $13 USD (not including drinks). Buuuuuut getting seven people to move is a bit like herding cats. So we got there for lunch instead. After food and drinks, we moved one-by-one from our table on the sand to their lounge chairs, where we continued to eat, drink, and enjoy the beach.
And this is where I sheepishly admit we spent ALL DAMN DAY at Indigo. There are two dangerous things right next to Indigo: a beach-front spa and a tourism kiosk. And we couldn't resist either. The ladies in our group all got hour-long massages for about $30 USD (plus tip) at Spa Turquesa. And we went back and forth with the kiosk manager for a while before booking our adventure for the next day (ruins and more snorkeling!).
By the late afternoon we had migrated to their pool area (for a fee). Hear me when I say their pool is AMAZING. It's two stories and the upper level is a hot tub with an underwater glass wall that overlooks the pool AND THE OCEAN. It's no wonder we couldn't leave. We ordered another bucket of beers and they brought us towels and cups and we stayed long enough to have dinner, too. (Get the chicken fajitas.)
Despite spending literally eight hours there, we only spent around $100 per person on food, drinks, and pool access. Well worth it, IMHO.
DAY FIVE: See the Ruins & the Turtles
Once again we woke early for an 8AM pickup. A private bus picked us up and whisked us away to the Mayan ruins in Tulum.
The tour we paid for included transport, admission, and a guide. Though frankly I'm not sure it was necessary; there is signage along that way that could be equally informative. After the tour, you can relax on the beach, do some shopping, or grab a bite to eat. We ate Don Cafeto Tulum Ruinas and I had the best chilaquiles of my life for $125 pesos.
From there, our bus took us to the Bay of Akumal to snorkel. Akumal is so special because the sea water merges with the freshwater from the underground river, causing different varieties of sea grass to grow. If you're thinking, "Who cares about sea grass?" I hear you. But sea turtles come in droves to eat the grasses unique to the region.
At Akumal, our snorkel guide, Alejandro, gave us gear and took us around a roped area for about an hour. In that time we saw stingray, squid, and a handful of sea turtles-some even had suckerfish clinging to their shells! And unlike our open water snorkel, the water here was calm. It was easy to float and follow the guide while still being able to see everything going on below the surface. It was relaxing and enjoyable and highly recommended.
By the time we got home, we were so tired we ordered Dominoes for dinner, watched the rain storm, and went to bed early.
DAY SIX: Take a Dip in a Cenote 
Whatever you do, do not skip the cenotes! I repeat: do not skip the cenotes!
If you don't know what a cenote is, you're in for a treat. Mexico's Riviera Maya is littered with them-more than 6,000 in total-and they're easily one of the things that make this region so special.
Basically, there is an underground river with fresh water that flows throughout the Yucatan Peninsula. As it moves, it erodes the landscape beneath the ground and creates caves filled with freshwater. When the ceilings of these caves collapse, you're left with beautiful open-air pools surrounded by jungle. Or ocean or ruins or what have you. Most have some kind of life, like varieties of fish, and are so worth the trip.
There are so many cenotes near Playa del Carmen it can be hard to choose which one is right for you, and we tossed around the idea of going to one of the more developed parks like Rio Secreto. Ultimately, we decided to hire a car to take us to Jardin del Eden. Mostly because it was close and full of the same fish that eat your skin in fancy spas. Plus, there are two other cenotes close by (Azul and Cristalino), so we could keep exploring if we wanted to.
The entrance to Jardin is $100 pesos per person, and the snorkel rental is about $25 pesos plus a deposit you get back. Although we initially weren't going to snorkel, I'm so glad we did. It's really amazing to see how deep the pools are from below the surface. Jardin is also nice because they have sunbathing decks, plenty of shade, and a small cafe for when hunger strikes. We only spent a couple hours swimming around before returning to meet up with the rest of the gang.
On our way through town we passed a restaurant called Fah and eventually returned for dinner. The atmosphere was great, complete with an incredibly talented live band and a guest performer who beat-boxed like you wouldn't believe. If you go, order the tuna tartare because it's to-die-for. Easily my favorite meal of the trip.
DAY SEVEN: Kiss Paradise Goodbye 
Okay, so maybe it's a little less than a week in Playa del Carmen. Day seven was our last day, so we didn't have much time.
We got up early to pack and clean house before doing some last-minute souvenir shopping at the edge of town. Our shuttle came for us at noon and we went our separate ways once we got to the airport.
And just like that, my week in Playa del Carmen came to an abrupt end. If I'd had more time, I would have definitely explored more cenotes.
Need more convincing? Check out the Planet Earth coverage on the Riviera Maya's cenotes. And tell us how you'd spend a week in Playa del Carmen!