Kayaking in the Pacific Northwest: Puget Sound paddling destinations
The Seattle area is best seen from the water: sailing, on a ferry, or on a kayak. Just short drives from the city are countless islands and bays to explore. Across the Puget Sound are the Kitsap and Olympic Peninsulas, which are dotted with lakes and waterways, ready to be paddled. Kayaking in the Pacific Northwest is amazing.
When you visit the Seattle area, or even better, when you do a road trip around the Puget Sound region or to the south, you'll be tempted to explore beyond the basic tourist sites and you should do it. Getting into a kayak is really the best way to experience the nature and views we've got. Kayaking in the Pacific Northwest will have you plotting to return again and again.
One thing to consider as you pay us a visit here in Washington, is that you don't need to have your own equipment for most adventures, and especially kayaking. At the end of this article we have several recommendations for kayak rental vendors to help making your dreams of kayaking in the Pacific Northwest come true.
Personal kayak recommendations if you're buying your own: for sit-on-top, aka sea and lake kayaks... the SunDolphin Bali is ideal. If you want a closed kayak for calm, non-rapid kayaking... SunDolphin Aruba. We have no whitewater kayak recommendations at this time. (affiliate links in post)
Kayaking the Olympic Peninsula
One of our favorite places to kayak is the Quileute River in La Push. The mouth has a marina to put in at and then the river itself is shockingly calm. Due to the shallow nature, there are no other boats of any sort, so the river is all yours; your bow is the only thing making ripples. And since the mouth is brackish, watch for flounder, salmon and the occasional otter.
Lakes Crescent and Lake Cushman are two other places to paddle: stumps, elk and mountains around every bend. Beautiful. Access to Lake Cushman for kayaking is limited to the Lake Cushman Resort, Skokomish Park and near the Staircase entrance of Olympic National Park. There are a few pull outs along the road, but if you're looking for water access, you'll need to be careful getting down to water level with your kayak.
It's the same with Lake Crescent to the north. The road around Lake Crescent is long and winding, but it's gorgeous and if you're watching you'll find several great places to put in. Near the Storm King ranger station, part of Olympic National Park, there is a boat launch that's ideal. This will put you midway into the lake and give plenty of options for views. Views are what kayaking in the Pacific Northwest is all about.
Tip: never go kayaking without a life jacket or PFD. Not only is it smart, but it's the law for kids everywhere in Washington and is just a good practice no matter what.
Kitsap Peninsula: picturesque kayaking in the Pacific Northwest
Another favorite paddling haunt is the Agate Passage and Liberty Bay, separating Bainbridge Island from the Kitsap Peninsula. The gradual shorelines of both sides make for easy pullouts and fantastic wildlife viewing. Without trying, We've seen otters swimming, heron and eagles swooping down and we've been stalked by harbor seals. Not kayaking, but from the beach we've also observed porpoises and even dolphins, so just imagine what a treat that would be if you're on the water!
Living right off the Agate Passage, we know the flow of larger boat traffic, so we're careful to paddle at the right time. Example: Fridays there is a small cruise ship that takes visitors to the Scandinavian village of Poulsbo, so we know to stay off the water so the wake doesn't send us swimming. We also know that kayaking on a salt water passage means fighting a tide, so planning trips to flow with the tide is important.
Tip: keep an eye on the tide tables to be able to plan your trips with maximum ease and safety. Kayaking in the Pacific Northwest is beautiful, but can be complicated based on the weather and tides.
Kayaking to yet experience: the San Juan Islands
Each time we've been up to the San Juan Islands we've seen people kayaking in the quiet coves and around the points... and yet we've NEVER kayaked in the San Juans. From the marina at Rosario Resort to Ships Bay on Orcas Island, there are some beautiful coves and beaches to explore. On the big island of San Juan from Friday Harbor to the Lime Kiln lighthouse, and then on the north side up in Roche Harbor, there are totally different sights... and orca whales to watch for.
Southern Washington: Columbia River Gorge kayaking
Heading south from Seattle or east from Portland, there are some exciting places to explore along the Columbia River Gorge. The Little White Salmon River, Dead Horse Lake and countless smaller lakes coming off the Columbia River provide a wide variety of paddling challenges. If you cross the Columbia over to Hood River, you'll find the Event Space, aka the place on the Columbia to put in your kayaks, wind surfboards, kite boards and all means of water sports.
We've done minimal kayaking in the Columbia River Gorge, but that'll change this spring and summer! Our upcoming destinations for kayaking in the Pacific Northwest (in the south) include the Klickitat River, Wind River, Drano Lake and more. It's going to be awesome!
Kayaking in the Pacific Northwest with kids
We take the kids kayaking nearly everywhere, from the lakes of Wisconsin to the marshes and waterways of Florida. Heck, we even kayaked in search of sea otters in Morro Bay and instead happened into an experience with a pelican breeding ground... So kayaking in the Pacific Northwest is just a must.
Kayaking is actually a very safe experience to include in family travel as long as everyone is suited in the appropriate life jackets. Most of the kayaking destinations around the Pacific Northwest are great for going on the water with kids, but you always want to keep safety at the forefront of your mind. These are our best tips for getting on the water and keeping kids safe out there:
Don't be afraid to take kids on kayaks; wise confidence is imperative to water safety and making kids feel safe.
Double kayaks can be rented anywhere and to be licensed to rent, a vendor must have PFDs/life jackets. Kayaking together is both fun and safe. Get the kids out on the water. It's a new view and they'll love it!
Remember that it's kayaking. You're going to get wet. Be prepared and dress appropriately. And have fun with it.
Tip: never under-estimate the value of a good dry bag. Dry bags are important for rough waters or longer trips. They're ideal for protecting cameras, snacks and dry clothes.
Visiting the Pacific Northwest without your own kayak is an easy problem to fix as they can be rented almost anywhere, and truthfully, you're not going to have a bad view wherever you paddle. If you're visiting the Kitsap Peninsula, Olympic Outdoor Center in Poulsbo can help. Up on the Olympic Peninsula, Adventures Through Kayaking is your go-to crew out of Sequim. On the southern tip of Orcas Island in the San Juans Orcas Island Kayaks has great rental rates if you're visiting Rosario or the eastern part of the island. In the Columbia River Gorge, Gorge Paddling Center out of Hood River has some great options including a sunset kayaking tour if you don't want to explore on your own, which is perfect for an experience in the Pacific Northwest.
So, are you ready to paddle any one of our countless waterways here in the PNW? Yeah, it's pretty amazing. This article will serve as a launch point for more kayaking articles at we explore the waterways of the Puget Sound area more. It's going to be awesome!

7 Things I learned leading an Adventure Tour to Pakistan
About a year ago, I was practically bankrupt. I remember looking at my Paypal balance, all six dollars of it. My bank accounts were both overdrawn. A huge credit card debt loomed upon the horizon. I had been working my ass off for the last few months, pulling hundred hour weeks to improve The Broke Backpacker and to start up my SEO agency. My ever chill partner, Esme, remained calm throughout it all but I knew that she was concerned as well. I had no more funds available to me anywhere, I could not go to my parents, my brother, or any bank.
Luckily, I had an ace up my sleeve... My travel blog.
Starting a travel blog changed my life. To run a successful blog is to become a jack of all trades and owning a blog can open up an incredible number of opportunities. I've learnt a huge amount over the last four years and I love to tinker, to experiment and to expand into every opportunity I come across. My dream is to show others that they too can ditch their desks, travel the world and earn money as they go.
Over the last twelve months, I've launched several new online ventures to test out different digital nomad paths. I've started a backpacking gear company, Active Roots, and I hope to eventually develop the ultimate travel backpack for nomads on the road. I've started an SEO agency with a business partner so that I can better monetise the advertising clients who reach out to me at The Broke Backpacker. I've bought an already successful Amazon niche site, at a cost of nearly $6000, which I plan on flipping for $30,000 within twelve months. I've built three more niche sites from the ground up. I've invested heavily in Bitcoin. I've hired a team of six writers and two editors to help me improve and expand the content on The Broke Backpacker. The thing is, expanding this rapidly is not without its challenges...
Back in November 2016, I had invested significantly more money than I had available and had drastically overstretched my means. Oscar Wilde once said that "a man who lives within his means lacks imagination" and this is a quote that has always stuck with me. I've never really cared about money, I've never really had any money, not until recently. I've always been confident that I could weather any storm - I don't mind being uncomfortable. The thing is that this time, for the first time in my life, it wasn't OK for me to sleep rough on the street or sell party enhancers to make ends meet - I have a wife to provide for.
Esme and I couldn't afford our rent, or even to eat properly and all of my money was tied up in unfinished ventures - to abandon them now would be to lose everything. Desperate for a cash injection, I broke out my whiteboard and scribbled down various money making ideas...
I decided to run a broke backpacker adventure tour to a far-flung land, a concept I had been thinking of for a while. Out of all the options available to me, the choice was obvious. I wanted to run my adventure tour to the adventure capital of the world... Pakistan.
Pakistan is a land of towering peaks and lush alpine meadows, a place of plentiful hashish, endless cups of chai and legendary hospitality. This is a country where time stands still. To travel here is to journey into a true adventure wonderland.
Best of all, Pakistan is a country where I am blessed to have many truly close friends. My Pakistani family, living in a small village in the mountains, are never far from my mind. Rehman, Sitara, Ali, Aliza, Rafaella - these are people who I really care about.
Excitedly, I picked up the phone and called my main man in Lahore, Soodi.
"Soodi, I want to bring a bunch of foreigners to Pakistan on an adventure tour, do you think it's a good idea?"
"Aw yes mon (it helps if you imagine Soodi talking in a Rasta accent), this is a great idea! This will be great for Pakistan!"
And so, it was settled.
Admittedly, I was a bit nervous about bringing an unknown group of people to Pakistan. This would be a fresh learning curve for me and I knew that Pakistan would present its own unique set of challenges as a destination. However, the more I thought about it the more I realised that a tour to Pakistan was the perfect choice...
Pakistan is awesome, but it can be difficult to get around and it's a country where you really do need local contacts to get behind the scenes and see some of the truly magical hidden gems. With four months backpacking experience in Pakistan, and close friendships all over the country, I realised that I was in a unique position to help open up Pakistan to the world and help some awesome adventurers, many of whom were short on time and only had a couple of weeks holiday, have an experience that they would never forget and which, frankly, wouldn't be possible without my contacts and expertise.
Excited about the idea, I took to Facebook and Instagram and announced that I was now taking deposits for the first ever Broke Backpacker Adventure Tour to Pakistan. The tour sold out in five days!
Looks like we're going to Pakistan baby!
And so, in September 2017, I lead the first ever Broke Backpacker adventure tour to Pakistan. For this first Broke Backpacker adventure, I took a group of eleven adventurers deep into the mountains to meet with my Pakistani family. We slept under starry skies, crossed sketchy glaciers, tackled swaying suspension bridges, rode horses into the night and enjoyed some top quality hash under the gaze of Nanga Parbat, the ninth highest mountain in the world.
I took my brother Alex and my good friend Aiden on this trip as backup and Soodi, my main man from Lahore, came along as our local fixer.
It was an incredible experience.
It was however also one of the most challenging things that I personally have ever done. And like any challenge, I picked up some lessons along the way...
7 Things I learnt on the first ever Broke Backpacker Tour
1. Tourism in Pakistan can change lives
With some financial help from myself and a couple of other backpackers, Rehman and his family are trying to build a backpacker guesthouse overlooking the stunning Karakoram range. Construction had ground to a halt as we were all out of money but by running this tour we were able to make a fresh donation to the project. Staying with Rehman and his family as part of a homestay experience was the highlight of almost everybody on the tour and many of my guests have vowed to return. We visited some truly remote places on this tour and were able to directly employ a number of amazing people along the way. It is my hope that future tours will enable us to continue to provide opportunities for both the people of Pakistan and our international guests for a cultural exchange. Best of all, by running these tours we are able to provide Rehman, his family and the people of Ghulkin with regular donations towards the construction costs of the backpacker hostel.
2. Adaptability is key
Lot's of minor things went wrong on this tour. In Pakistan, time doesn't work the same way as in other countries. You can call to a restaurant two hours before you are due to rock up to pre-order your food and then confirm again thirty minutes before you turn up only to find that nobody has even started cooking when you arrive and it's going to be at least an hour. Roads get washed away in Pakistan and sudden changes of plan are par for the course with travelling in this part of the world. I was really proud of our ability to roll with the punches and reformulate our plan on the road and although things didn't always go to plan, we always worked it out.
3. People from all walks of life are pretty awesome
I was really lucky to have such a great group of guests on this tour. Before the group rocked up to Lahore, I was somewhat nervous - I hadn't led a group anywhere before and would very much be figuring it out as I went along. After a few days, our group had formed into one ultra-awesome-mega-cohesive unit and people were getting on well. Friendships were formed, amusing tales of woe from the road were told and we all thought about sleeping with each other - according to the drinking game 'Never Have I Ever' anyway. I'm still in regular contact with a couple of the guests I got on with the best and I hope to see them again on the road real soon. I was very lucky to mostly have guests who were willing to dive in and grab the adventure by the horns.
4. A digital detox is good for the soul
I'll confess, in the months leading up to the Pakistan tour, I had been balls deep in my laptop, hustling hard to create the passive income which will enable me to live the lifestyle I want. I've been involved in so many projects recently that it's been hard to find timed to focus on my mental wellbeing. I made the decision before the tour that I would not look at my phone or laptop the entire time I was in Pakistan. This proved to be a huge blessing. I left my workload with my team and was able to properly focus on leading the tour and being the best tour leader that I could be. The mountains have always been my happy place and to be back amongst the jagged peaks of the Karakoram range with a bunch of new friends was simply splendid.
5. Pakistan is simply incredible
OK, OK, I knew this already. But being on the tour and having the privilege to watch other people form their own opinions about this magical land and its heartwarming people reminded me just how special Pakistan really is. The Garden of Eden ain't got nothing on Pakistan... Pakistan is simply the most stunningly beautiful country I have ever been to and is filled with warm, wonderful, kind people.
6. Pakistan isn't for everybody
A real adventure like Pakistan requires a certain kind of mentality and a willingness to work as a team and to roll with the punches. I need to be certain that I am bringing the right people to Pakistan, luckily almost all of the group was sound but in the future, I'm going to only take experienced travellers to Pakistan. This ain't a holiday, it's an adventure.
7. We need to do this again!
In 2018, we will be running two more tours to Pakistan - one in early April and one in September. I am extremely excited to announce that we are now taking deposits, click on the photo below to find out more about coming on an adventure to Pakistan in 2018!

Georgetown Southeast Asia's Most Underrated City Photo Essay
Admittedly, I had no idea Georgetown Penang existed until around 2014. While working on a project in Malaysia I was invited on a food tour with a company called Simply Enak in KL. My partner and I ended up heading to Penang soon after to take the tour there as well. And I was blown away. Now, I visit the city regularly. While I'm an avid food enthusiast, Georgetown has so much more to offer than excellent food. Sidenote, Georgetown's Indian and Chinese cuisine are excellent in every way. Innovative Street Art, colonialist architecture, and a hybrid immigrant culture combine in this UNESCO World Heritage Site to create a sensory overload that won't break your wallet. Here are 14 images that shoe just how underrated this city is. 
Here's a Trishaw. Sadly, it's one of the things which makes Georgetown so unique but's going the way of the Horse and Buggy. Commercialization and easy money elsewhere is killing off the Trishaw industry because younger Malay aren't picking up the trade. It's difficult work for not much pay. Going to be a sad day when these cultural icons disappear. 
Georgetown has no shortage of delicious Indian restaurants. Hameediyah, Sri Ananda Bahwan, and Restoran Tajuddin Hussain to name a few. But I always recommend Kapitan. While it's more "corporate" than the others I've listed, it's consistent in quality and an easier transition for those used to "western" hygiene standards. Not to mention, their Tandoori Chicken is off the chain. 
Many don't know that Stanley Kubrick was also a great photographer. He once said of photography, "I think aesthetically recording spontaneous action, rather than carefully posing a picture, is the most valid and expressive use of photography." I couldn't agree more. My love of this medium is about capturing a moment in time that will never happen again. It can never be entirely duplicated. The authenticity of life. That's why I love photography. Every time I visit Georgetown I come across scenes like this. This man spends his days making wicker chairs like the one he's sitting in. In the foreground, you see one of the many pieces of street art that covers the city.
Georgetown's row housing will immediately jump out at you. With colonial elements abound that will surely be recognizable to anyone that's visited Britain. As you walk the streets you'll notice wide open doors and windows. Offering you a voyeuristic look at Penang life in a way that many cities don't offer. Communities are close-knit and people are extremely welcoming to guests. 
One thing that's definitely spread around the world from Georgetown is it's amazing Street Art. While the roster of artists has expanded in recent years, it all started with Lithuanian artist, Ernest Zacharevic. His amazing works reinvigorated the art scene in Georgetown and has opened the door for other extremely talented artists. 
These Iron Caricatures have heads turning in Georgetown. The Malaysian sculpture studio SCULPTUREATWORK won a contract from the Penang State Government in 2009 as a way of marking Georgetown's then-new status as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Their proposal was 'voices from the people'. Each of the 52 pieces features historical information about the location and dialogue between characters. Worth a visit just to find them all. The perfect free walking tour. 
Georgetown's street food culture should be mentioned in the same breath as Bangkok or Istanbul. Where I think Georgetown prevails is sheer diversity. Chinese, Indian, Malay, and a bit of Portuguese makes for a diverse foodie city. Reach out to my friends at Simply Enak for an excellent tour. 
Georgetown is a place of many faiths. With its history of colonialism and immigration, you'll find everything from Mosques to Taoist temples. While Islam is the dominant religion at 44%, you'll see Buddhists and the Hindus quite often. 
Pictured above is something truly special to Malaysia. It's called a Lok Lok. Lok Lok means "to dip". A wide range of food like seafood, meat, and vegetables is skewered on sticks and placed around a table or cart. You grab whatever stick you want and dip it in the water to cook. Kind of like poaching it. Then dip it in whatever sauce you want. I'm partial to peanut sauces. The perfect introduction to Malay street food. Combining a bit of each culture. 
The premise of this photo essay relies on the idea that Georgetown is underrated. I'll admit, there's definitely a thriving backpacker scene here. While not as large as say Koh Phi Phi or Bali, you get regular waves of backpackers.Though it's usually those looking to slow down a bit. Georgetown isn't exactly a party destination. But you'll find plenty of great hostels. 
I've made no secret about Indian cuisine being in my top three food favorites. So you know Georgetown is a must visit for me. I've gotten pushback for saying this, Georgetown has some of the worlds best Indian food. At times better than Indian and the U.K., I would go so far to say that Durban South Africa is it's biggest rival. The Indian cuisine in Georgetown eliminates the sanity issues of India and the high costs of the U.K. Putting it in rarified space. Affordable and safe. 
Meet Lee Beng Chuan. One of the most inspirational people I've ever met. This man is 89 years old and still gets up early every morning to make Sandalwood Joss Sticks. Something he's been doing for over 60 years to feed his family. He represents everything about Georgetown that speaks to me. Tradition, Passion, Identity, and Longevity. A true master of his craft and ambassador for cultural sharing. It's a blessing to have met him. 
There are very few cities that haven't been overrun by mass tourism. Georgetown is still one of those places. But as western culture infiltrates Penang, it appears many of this UNESCO sites charms are on borrowed time. So come while you have a chance and make sure to bring your appetite and thirst for knowledge. You'll get a crash course in cultural exposure. 

SAMAR By Motorbike - An Epic, Solo Road Trip in the Philippines
Riding the island of Samar was much more of an adventure than I thought it would be. First of all, it's huge. Second, it's not so developed... and while it's great to get off the well-worn tourist path, the roads are pretty rough. Third, it was the start of the rainy season. However, the landscapes are great for photography, the locals were friendly, and the food was quite good. I'll show you... 
My First Glimpse of the San Juanico Bridge
The motorbike for this trip was generously provided by Haven's Rentals in Tacloban, Leyte. Being just across the water from Samar, this gave me the chance to ride across the famous San Juanico Bridge. It snakes its way across the sea, connecting the 2 giant islands. Elegant and picturesque, it's also the longest of its kind in the Philippines.
I rode north and thought I'd easily make it to Calbayog City before sunset. Wrong. By the time I finally did arrive, I was tired, hungry, and quite sore from the ride. The problem was, the city was in chaos. There was no power anywhere, and it was rush hour... so there were cars, jeeps, trikes, and people everywhere.
An Earthquake Left Us in the Dark
I was too hungry to think straight. I stopped at a bank to ask how to get to a hotel I read about. The guard gave directions, and then explained that there was no electricity because of a big earthquake in Leyte, where I just came from. The entire region (both huge islands) was pitch black. Crazy. I rode right through it - I didn't feel a thing.
Unfortunately my hotel was booked, because everybody was clamoring for rooms with electricity (some hotels had generators). I lucked out and got the last room at a clean, modern place called Meaco Hotel. I really needed it. Staff was great, and I was lucky to find some tasty Bicolano food next door at an eatery. They were nice, too. I'm going to like Samar, I thought to myself.
Samar Landscapes
The next morning, I was back on the road... heading to Bangon and Tarangban Falls, about an hour away. The clouds slowly began to clear, and I parked the bike for a quick photo shoot. Nice bike, huh? It's a Yamaha NMAX 155cc. Probably the most comfortable scooter you will ever ride... 
My Filipino friends laugh when I tell them how much I love banana trees. We just don't have anything like these back home in California! They look so lush and tropical to me. I particularly loved this vista looking out to some islands in the sea.
I didn't know it, but by the time I took this picture, I had already missed the turn for Bangon Falls. This colorful waterway full of fishing boats was located about 2kms north of where I needed to be.
I guess this was some sort of temporary wooden bridge, but I wanted to take a photo to show you how rough the roads can be. There were construction sites and one-lane detours everywhere! Anyhow, a huge shipping truck came around the corner behind me, so I had to jump back on the bike and and get out of the way pretty quick! Haha.
That Time Nathan Allen Broke Down in Allen, Samar
Ever since I looked at a map of northern Samar and noticed a town called "Allen" (my family name), I knew I had to visit it. Well, right as I pulled in to town, something tried to keep me there, because my brand new motorbike wouldn't start anymore! The locals pointed to a vulcanizing/mechanic shop up the road, so I pushed the bike there. 
The guys there were nice and helpful. Soon, we had attracted the attention of some curious onlookers. At first I thought something was wrong with the safety feature that's cuts the engine when the side stand is down... it turns out it was super simple - the battery cable had just come loose! Still, I gave kuya a bit of money for his help. He was reluctant to accept, but I insisted. 
Some of the others were very kind to lead me to the Municipal Hall, where I hoped to find more information about the town of Allen.
Some very enthusiastic employees greeted me at the Municipal Hall. They were excited, and convinced that I must be related to the famous Allen. Haha. It turns out the town was named after Major General Henry Tureman Allen, who was Military Governor of Leyte in 1901. Similar to the Lewis and Clark expedition, he was also famous for having explored over 2,000kms of Alaskan wilderness in the 1880s.
Anyhow, no relation to me (that I know of)... but a good experience in the town of Allen anyhow. Thanks, guys!
As I continued east from Allen, I came across this beautiful "floating" native village. I believe it was near San Jose, in northern Samar.
An Encounter in a Cemetery
I also stopped to take photos of a beautiful old cemetery tucked away in the jungle. There was nobody around, and I ventured inside as the afternoon sun started fading. I lost track of my surroundings, as I was super focused on getting the best shots in the challenging light.
Suddenly I noticed a small figure out of the corner of my eye. I looked up and saw a small head disappear behind a tree. Trying to not show any fear, I walked confidently over to the tree and looked behind it... but there was nothing there.
Strange. I was positive I had seen it. I nervously took a few more shots on my way out, then prepared to leave by the side of the road. Just before I got on the motorbike, I saw a young boy watching me from the gravestones. I smiled and waived as I rode away... he waived back. I wonder what his story is.
Anything Could Cross the Highway: Kids, Chickens, Water Buffalo... Wait. Airplanes??
I was completely exhausted by the time I started nearing Catarman. It seemed like a repeat of the chaos in Calbayog... dark city streets full of people and traffic... and at one point all the vehicles were funneled through a small hole in a giant wall. Suddenly it opened back up to a huge, dark expanse, with pavement stretching in every direction. It was so odd. It almost seemed... like... the road was crossing a giant airplane runway.
Well, today on a Google Satellite Map, I confirmed that the road does in fact cross the runway of Catarman National Airport! Haha. I realized that riding a motorbike on an airplane runway is probably a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
Anyhow, hotels were all booked once again, but I was lucky to find a cheap room at Mijares Hotel, tucked away on a side street. Had to deal with the heat when the generator cycled off every few hours, but that's life in the provinces. I was already used to it. In the morning I found an eatery nearby called Downtown Silog... 
A Toasted Siopao Discovery in Catarman
There are some foods that I really love in the Philippines. One is Emong's Malunggay Pandesal (Moringa leaf bread). The other is Toasted Siopao, which I tried in Naga City for the first time. I was surprised to see it served here at Downtown Silog, and this version is pretty different. It's delicious, sweet like a doughnut... and you HAVE TO TRY IT.
A Yamaha Dealer - Right When You Need One
How lucky is this? Right as I turned onto the road to Calbayog, the "change oil" light came on. I promised to take good care of this sleek motorbike, but I wasn't sure where I could find a trustworthy shop way out here. BOOM. I literally looked up and saw a Yamaha Dealership &amp; Service Center right across the street.
The owner of Haven's Transport uses this bike personally, and he really customized it. The guys at the shop were really drooling over it. A resort owner in Leyte loved it so much that he joked he would steal it in the middle of the night. Haha. Anyway, this team got the job done right... and right away. I really appreciated that.
N.P.A. Ambush?
The "shortcut" road to Calbayog was much more remote than I thought it would be. It really took me into the hills and countryside. Soon, I started seeing these graffiti-type signs on the side of the road. They were painted on old wooden planks, and written in the local dialect. Littered with exclamation points, the only part I could understand was "NPA... AMBUSH!!!"
The NPA "National People's Army" is a rebel group who hide in the mountains. I think they're considered terrorists by the government. Anyway, these signs were clearly meant for people on the road, and each one seemed to get more and more serious as I kept riding. I don't ever feel unsafe in the Philippines, but I started to wonder if there was something I didn't know about this little road... 
In the end, it was fine. I'm not sure if it's true, but somebody told me that those signs were just the community trying to convince the rebels to come out from the hills and give themselves up. Anyhow, the road opened back up, and I got finally made it to Bangon Falls in Calbayog. Incredible place, the link to that blog post is at the bottom of this page... 
I continued south after photographing the waterfalls. It was getting late (and raining, of course), so I stopped in Calbayog for an overnight at a place called Marju Krisel Hotel and Resort. There was quite a party going on there! So many families eating, drinking, and swimming in the pool. My room was super cheap, I was surprised.
The next day, I hoped to make it all the way to the coastal town of Catbalogan. On my way there, I stopped at a restaurant called Marcial's Grille. This was recommended to me by an American guy who lives in Samar. They serve one of the best pork liempo (belly) I have ever tried!
I came across these friendly locals when I pulled the motorbike over to take photos of Buri Island, out at sea.
Lined with huts and fishing boats, this "floating village" is on the outskirts of Catbalogan, near the Bus Interchange. After this, I explored Buri Island a bit, then continued on to Catbalogan City proper. There, I was able to visit the tourist center and also meet with Mr. Joni Bonafacio, Samar's resident cavemaster. He runs an outdoor/adventure shop called Trexplore.
Seeing all his Samar photos and expeditions on the walls, it was pretty clear that I barely even scratched the surface on my trip. Great guy, I enjoyed meeting him. Being that it's one of Samar's claims to fame, I do hope to try caving on my next trip. A far-flung place I was sad to miss was Pinipisikan Falls and Sulpan Cave. 
Rice Field Landscapes in Paranas
One my way south to Marabut, I came across these beautiful rice paddies in Paranas. It's been my dream to see the famous Banaue Rice Terraces at a vibrant, early stage like this. Instead, I always seem to end up there near harvest time, when the greens turn to brown. Anyhow, quite a picturesque little scene on the side of the road.
Saob Cave in Basey (Famous For Banig)
This cave area features the famous weavers who popularized banig, or Ticog Grass floormats. It's a peaceful place, and as you can see, nobody was around when I explored the cave in the afternoon. I suppose it made the experience that much more surreal.
Marabut's Fascinating Limestone Landscapes
This was the highlight of my trip around Samar. These limestone rock formations and cliffs give the area a feel similar to El Nido. I absolutely loved it here.
It still has it's own character, though. To be honest, I'm shocked that I didn't hear more about this place sooner. I guess it's not as famous as northern Palawan because it doesn't have white sand beaches. As a photographer / adventurer though, it has everything I'm after. Definitely a place I want to come back and explore more.
You can see more of Marabut's exotic limestone rock formations in my Caluwayan Beach Resort Post. I loved staying there.
How To Get To Samar
Domestic flights to Calbayog City depart from Manila and Cebu. I think Cebu Pacific even flies to Catarman, the airport with a highway running through it! Haha.
You can also take a page from my playbook - fly to Tacloban and rent a car or motorbike from Haven's... and start an adventure of your own! The owner Rhoel is a great guy.